Hi and welcome back.
So let's dig right into clothes.
So let's go ahead and create a standard closure.
So if I'll use a string for a local variable x then we're going to define it in a function which is
simply going to print x.
So X is a non-local variable which means that intern X is going to form a closure and then we're going
to return the closures from the function.
So now we can call our and assign the result back to FM right.
So FM is not a closure.
And it means that we can look at things like the free variables right.
And as you can see X is a free variable.
As expected that's the X over here.
We can also look at the closure that done the closure property and it tells us again it's a tuple right
just like the three variables is a tuple.
This is a tuple there's only one free variable so we only have one thing one object in here.
But it's telling us that this label is actually pointing to a cell object and the cell object points
to some string object at this location.
Now we can do.
We can actually look at the memory address of x from within order and what we've got to be careful with
string interning because we may have two different objects that are not pointing to a cell and yet that
both will be pointing to the same string.
And that's because of string interning which happens automatically in Python.
And I don't want to use integers either for my variable because as you know integers like 1 2 3 and
so on are also Singleton objects which means that I could have two different variables two different
labels but that both be pointing to the same object so that wouldn't actually show anything.
So I'm going to use something that I know isn't going to get you know re-used and I'm going to use a
list for that.
So let's go ahead and recreate our auto function.
This time I'm going to make X equal to some list.
Let's say one two and three.
And now I'm going to declare a winner.
Right.
And if I do this I just want to show you first one two three and then what I want to do is I'm going
to print the hex value of the ID of X right and then Kisch.
And actually we could make that also x that will still be a local variable because we have an assignment
and I want to show you that we'll end up with different IDs.
So let's just go ahead and run that let's say F N is equal to ours.
OK so we have that.
And now if we call F-in we see that and our hand need to return the closures.
All right.
Sorry about that.
OK.
So it gives us this memory address so that's the memory address of X..
In honors which is a local variable to our When we call efen we're going to call in essentially and
X is going to be a local variable to it.
It's not a free variable because it's a local variable of winner.
And so we should get a different memory address and indeed we do.
If I hadn't done that if I said Python and Python and did the same thing you'd see that we actually
ended up with the same memory address.
And that's because of the string intoning that we discussed and lecture.
So I'm going to go back and use unlist cake now which I'm not going to re create the variable.
I'm just going to reference that.
So I'm going to say y equals x.
Ok that's just referencing the variable it's on the right hand side.
So now this is going to be a closure.
And I'm going to print the ID of while X it doesn't matter which one over here.
OK.
So let's go ahead and run the function again.
So we're going to call out.
And so we have now this memory address.
This is the memory address of x.
So the memory address of essentially this thing over here but remember that F-in is a closure.
OK.
So if you look at that it's telling us that the free variable x is pointing to some cell at some memory
address but the cell itself points to a list object at this memory address over here which you'll notice
is the same as the memory address that we printed from here.
So Python does the double hop for us when we request the memory address of the variable it knows.
Yeah there's a cell in between but it's going to dereference that and find us the final reference.
OK.
In this case it's this one over here.
So now we can call FLN and you can see that FM printed the memory address of why again it did the double
pop.
Why is technically pointing to the cell but it returns the and reference.
So this is the last one over here.
So you can see this X and this X are both pointing to the same object at the end of the day once the
double hop is done.
They're both pointing to the same object.
And that's because they're both pointing to the cell and the cell points to just that single object.
And so because of that cell we're able to have two labels in two different scopes essentially be the
same thing.
Right.
That pointing to the same cell that points to that final list.
So now let's write a closure where we can actually modify the free variable.
So we're going to start with the same example we did in the lecture.
So we'll do an.
We're going to set a count variable which is a local variable currently.
And now we're going to declare an inner function and it's going to make a count that's in sync a non-local
count.
What does this mean.
This means that this count and this count are the same.
In other words this is a shared scope right.
This is a a a shared label between two different scopes.
So count is going to point to a cell.
Right.
This count is going to point to the same cell and that cell is at the moment pointing to zero.
We can then say count plus equals 1.
Now we're just adding one count and we're going to return the new value of count.
And of course we're going to return the increment function right from our So we're returning the closure
so we can see that things are a closure.
Let's go ahead and call Ahlberg and assign its result to FM and we'll see that F-in has some free variables
and has a free variable count.
Yeah that label count was the free variable.
In fact we can also look at closure on FM and we get that the free variable is a cell.
Basically it's a pointer to a cell and the cell points to this integer object which integer object is
it while it's the one it's 0.
Right.
That's the one right now.
In fact we can look at x hex of ID of 0 since we know that 0 is a singleton integer.
The singleton object in python we should get the same memory address back and indeed we do.
All right.
Because it's singleton object.
So now let's go ahead and call the closure.
So we're going to call F-in and we see returns a value of 1.
Well what happens is that count was 0.
Right.
That was Count was pointing to the cell that was pointing to this object.
So when we referenced that here when we said Count equals count plus 1.
Right.
This was the same thing as saying count equals count plus 1 or almost the same thing.
Count equals countless 1.
Then it actually reference count which has 0 added 1 to it and then start a back and count.
So not one and returned 1 but remember that we can't modify an integer and integer is an immutable object.
So what happened in fact is that the cell changed where it was pointing to.
So it's no longer pointing to 5 0 6 FGC 50 which is zero.
It's now pointing to an object that contains the value 1.
Right.
And so we can see this if we call closure again on the function.
You can see that the memory address has changed where it was FGC 50.
Now it's FEC 70.
And indeed we can look at the memory address of one since we know of again that one is also a singleton
object.
We get the same memory address FTSE 70.
So this is how you are modifying this non-local variable this free variable from inside the closure.
Right.
And because both of these count points to the cell once Alt-A has finished running which means by the
time that's how I call F-in while outer is finished running which means this count over here is gone.
It's no longer.
Its scope is gone.
However the cell it was referencing this cell is still being referenced by the count that's inside of
ink right.
That's in the closure I should say of AInc not inside and it's a local variable.
It's in the closure that that ink that we have here with ink that cell is still referenced by that closure
so that cell still exists and it's still pointing to whatever value it is initially was pointing to
zero.
Then we changed it then pointed to one.
If we go to two if we call it again it will point to an object with integer 2 and so.
So we saw how we can change the value of a free variable from inside the closure.
But another question might be can we change that from another function that's not the closure itself.
Can we do that and the answer is yes we can certainly do that using this kind of construction.
So let's go ahead and again create an outer function always need to have this wrapper function in order
to create closures out.
We'll see a little bit later in the video that you can still have variables or labels that are shared
between scopes but without actually having a closure.
Right.
And that's really just a slight modification of an example that we'll do in the video.
But first let's see how we could do something like this.
Let's go ahead and let's do the same thing as before.
Now I'm going to create this incremental one function and it's going to make a non-local count.
So now it's saying that this count and this count are the same.
Right.
So now we can say count plus equals 1 return count.
And I'm going to do now another function think two and it is also going to say non-local Council.
Basically it's the same code.
I'm going to copy paste that.
So what's happening here as we saw on the lecture this count this count and this count are all pointing
to the same cell.
Right.
It's the same label with different labels that are just the same variable.
So these labels are in different scopes but they're all pointing to the same thing and the end of the
day so they pointing to that same cell and the cell is pointing to currently 0.
And what we're going to do here is we're going to return both of the closures.
Right.
These are both closures.
We're going to return one and two and a tuple.
So now we're going to unpack the tuple that we get back by calling pottery and we're going to assign
it to F and 1 and 2.
So you'll see that f and 1 is a closure.
And it has free variables.
So let's look at its three values and let's do the same thing with F and 2
and you'll see that both of those closures have that label count.
And in fact they count labels on both pointing to the same cell.
Let's say let's take a look at that and to done the closures.
And as you can see the first one is pointing to this cell.
And the second one is pointing to the same cell.
And of course the cell is the same and it points to this object right now which has the memory address
for zero because that's what count is currently you know has a value of currently.
So now if we call fine of one for I find one I should say.
Then we get one back and if we go ahead and rerun this you'll see that the cell has stayed the same.
Yeah but the value that the cell is pointing to has changed.
It's now that 670 it's now that's integer 1 right.
And of course since it's the same cell 4 and 2 it's obviously pointing to the same thing.
So this is why we call FNY to pride with calling the second closure.
It's going to do the same thing it's going to increment the count by 1 and then return it.
Well it's the same object right.
So what is the current value of count it's 1.
So that's why F and 2 now returns 2.
So we were able to modify the count that's basically referenced by this closure from a different closure.
This one over here.
And that's because we created these two closures in the same scope referencing the same outer variable.
So that's why we were able to do that.
Now I want to contrast this with when you create closures in different scopes.
Right so here we created two closures within the same scope that referenced the same variable.
OK.
Now let's go ahead and do something else.
So let's define a simple closure.
We're going to call this power of n.
So and is local to pulv.
Right.
And then we're going to define an in a function that's also going to take a variable let's say X and
it's going to return x to the power of an.
Right.
So this is why I called my out-of function power doesn't really matter.
But end of the day this is a closure.
This is an.
Which is referencing this.
And over here.
So N is pointing to a cell which is pointing to right now no value.
Right.
It doesn't have anything but it is pointing to a cell and then will return in a k.
So we can see we can now call part and let's call this square K and we'll pass in a value of two that's
we're going to be squaring.
So power of to remember is can return a function that will take a single parameter.
And when we call that function it will take that parameter to the power of whatever it is.
Well then we're specifying now is equal to 2.
So if we do square closure I'll skip the free vase we know the free var is its end.
So end is something that's pointing to this memory address.
The FTC 90.
Now because again two is a singleton object.
I can actually figure out that two is what's stored at that location.
Right.
This is the same memory address.
OK.
So now we can call the closure we can.
The square is a function right.
Look at square.
It's a function right.
Which is this in a function that was inside of power.
But of course it's got a little bit more because it's a closer.
So now we can call square of five right and we get 25.
Now we can do something else.
We can say cube equals power 3.
Right.
So now cube is a different hosier's.
It was created by a separate call to power.
Which means that the value for an equal to two in the value equal to three here have nothing in common.
They're not the same and they're not the same cell fact.
We can look at it this way.
Right.
And we can see that the cell address that's used in this closer is the cell address over here which
is different than the cell address that squirrel uses.
Right.
And this is pointing to a value of three facts we can look at the hecks of idea of three and you'll
see that it's the same address here five or six FGC be zero.
OK.
So now we can call cube 5 and we get 125.
So you can see that these two closures were created from the same order function call power.
But it created two different scopes right.
The free variable scopes were different.
The free variable in this case was pointing to this cell.
And in the second case it was pointing to a different cell.
And that's because when we called Power the first time right.
It created a scope a local scope for the power function.
When we created it the second time when we called it the second time it went ahead and created a new
scope for that call.
Right.
Every call gets a new scope.
So because there was a new scope the closure was created within a new scope each time as well.
So the different closes.
Right.
They don't have the same scope.
They don't share anything.
Lastly let's look at the caveat that I mentioned in the lecture and this is where you inadvertently
create labels that are actually shared between scope's.
So in the lecture I mentioned that you can run the code that I'm going to type either directly in the
module or inside a function.
If you run it directly in the module you're not actually going to be creating closures because you can
share.
You can have shared labels write labels that are shared across scopes without having a closure.
Right.
That can happen in different kinds of circumstances.
So let's take a look at doing this.
But within a function so that we can actually use this closure here because it tells us that there's
this indirect reference so it's easier to see what's going on.
So let's create those add a function and it takes in a parameter and that's going to be what we add
to.
But let me define the inner function right away and then you'll see what we're doing.
Return x plus and K and then we're going to return then.
That's.
So what does this do.
Well the closure is going to take in a single variable.
So it's a function that requires a single variable x and it's going to add and the free variable.
So whatever end is right and it's going to return the sum of the two.
So now we could say add underscore one equals Kadar one.
So what does this mean.
This means that the function in her is going to have a free parameter N and is going to have a value
of 1.
Then we can call add underscore to by making another call to Kadar and we can do add three making another
call to add.
And you could do this you know for a few more but I'm going to stop there.
So you'll notice that these are different scopes each time we're calling the out-of function.
So three different scopes here were created which means that the closures were created inside different
scopes.
So the ends right in these three different poses are not the same and they're not the same cell.
Right.
An outer one and here and there share the same cell and added to and share the same cell but the cell
between added one and out of two.
Not the same.
Same thing we've added two out of three right.
So we can define these.
And in fact we can take a look at what those cells are by using the done the closure profiting.
And as you can see we have three different cells right.
A 98 a 68 and B 168.
So three different cells for these three different free variables which make sense we created them in
different causes so we can say and underscore one to 10 we get 11 and underscored two.
So add underscore to on turn will return 12 and add three on 10 will return the team.
So that works as expected of course when we see code like this or code like this typing the same thing
again and again and again we don't want to type the same thing.
So immediately as developers we want to try and reduce this and simplify it and especially avoid repetitiveness
right.
So instead we might think well let's do all this creating you know a loop.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So I'm going to create a empty list that's going to contain my closures this time my functions but they're
going to be closures and then I'm going to do a loop for end he calls for and sorry and printers and
Java for a and in range 1 through 3 right 1 1 2 and 3 Sugo wonderful what do we want to do.
Well we want to append a function that's going to be basically this in a function over here.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to use a lambda and land is going to take a single parameter.
So basically I'm just doing this in a function here.
Right.
So Lander's going to take a single parameter and can say X plus.
And but what is this.
Well this is the n that is in here.
Right.
It's the same N but in two different scopes.
So this is a label that is basically shared between two scopes.
Right.
So we are going to be creating that cell so if we do this then we've just created now three things in
good three functions and this and I'm not calling them closures they're Lander's and they have this
and that is bound to the same end that we have in the loop right on that end exists God created.
But what is the scope of and this.
And right now it's the global scope.
So this N is basically the global n.
Now I can't show you this cell using this done this closure because the functions in adder's are not
closures because this was actually referencing the global and not a local.
So this is technically not the same thing.
So we don't have a closure here.
And so this we can take a look and we can look at the first function and added And we don't have anything
for closure it's not a closure.
There are no free variables.
It's not a closure but this and and this n right and this and over here are still all the same.
So if I run this now then it's not going to work as expected if I run 0 on 10 what do I expect to do
I expect her to add 1 to 10 and then therefore return 11.
But when I execute that I get 13.
Now I explained that in the lecture of why that's happening but it's not very apparent here.
What's going on.
You have to kind of know this.
So instead what I'm going to do is I'm going to wrap this inside a function so that I will be creating
closures when I call these clambers because then the end is going to be a local variable to the out
of function.
So now have a closure.
So let's go ahead and just do this.
I'm going to take the same code right here and I'm going to call this deft create addas cake and I'm
going to just do the same thing but now I'm going to return adder's.
Now what is an Adams as well.
We have this function right.
That's defined inside this function and this and that happens to be the n that is a local variable of
create is right and is a local variable of create addas.
This is a function nested inside the function with a free variable that is now a closure.
And so I'm going to return a list of closures so we can do that.
And now I can say adder's equals create hadis.
Now go ahead and create the ads.
So essentially we've done the same thing except that instead of adding a directly here if by running
within the global module itself I've done it via a function which means now that my additive my ADD
is list contains these lambdas that are actually closures.
So if I say adder's 0 closures you'll see that.
Now we have a closure and you'll see that the end.
Right.
That's the free variable and the adder's is pointing to this cell over here.
The eat 8 if I look at adder's one closure
then the N is also pointing to the same cell right.
As expected we knew this was going to happen because this is a this is a closure that is being created
that references the same and every time it is no different than what we did over here.
Right.
We had two closures that reference the same count.
This is the same thing that's happening over here.
We have the same n right being referenced every time so this and all the ends that we have in the three
different hosier's we create in this loop all pointing to the same thing.
Right.
So we can look at the third one as well.
And as you can see his again is pointing to the same cell.
However what is the value of n.
If I call adder's 0 on 10 k it's not going to call the force closure.
Now at this time it's going to evaluate that function.
So it's going to evaluate what's inside the function X plus and so exit knows we just gave it 10.
But what is n.
Well it has to go look it up.
So it says OK what is it.
So I'm looking at the full closure.
So it's going to look at this cell which is the same as the other ones and they say Well what's what's
in there.
Well it's whatever object is had this memory address which you'll notice of course is the same for all
three because it's the same cell.
What is that memory address.
Well it's three.
Why.
Well the loop ran so and was one.
So in the beginning when we ran this thing it was pointing to the cell and the integer object would
have been whatever the memory address is for one.
Then the second iteration ran.
Now we changed and to two what does it mean we changed and to 2.
It means that we changed this reference to be an object that contained to the cell stayed the same but
it changed what it was pointing to.
Which means that all the as as you change the value of pen all the closures.
Well whatever they say the cell is that they use that's changing as well because it's the same cell
right.
So that's why when we call now add a zero to 10 we get 13 and not 11 as we were hoping to do.
So that's a bug that you can very easily introduce into your code one thing I didn't mention in the
lecture and I'll show you here very quickly is how do you solve that problem.
Let's say you do want to do this and you do want it to work properly.
Well again you have to think about what happens when Python creates a function versus when it evaluates
it.
So the problem is that right when we're creating this function over here it's not evaluating and it's
just saying OK and is going to be the sad thing I'll look up the value for N when you actually call
the lambda.
Right now we're not calling it we're just finding it right.
So we need to somehow be able to capture the value of N as the functions being created because if we
wait until the function is evaluated then it's too late because those ends are bound to each other.
And if we change one of them it will change the other ones as well.
So a trick that you can do here is to maybe say why he calls an ad instead of adding X plus.
And we're going to add X plus Y.
Now why does this work this homework.
Why.
Well when we have this right with basically setting a default value for y if we don't specify the value
for Y then Python is going to use the default.
When does the default get created.
Rima we discussed that before.
Right.
Because there were some caveats there as well with defaults.
The files get evaluated at creation time.
So when this lambda is created the default value of and the whatever is is going to be used.
So when end is one y will have a default value of 1.
It will not have a default value pointing to the cell.
It will have the full value of one in the next iteration when any calls to it will have a default value
of 2 not n to right because Python does not see this as a free variable.
It's not a free variable.
So in this case we're actually not even creating closures.
We're just creating functions.
Let's take a look.
So let's go ahead and let's say adder's because create Katter's.
Right.
So now we've got our adder's what are what is contained in all addas.
Well again we have three functions that lambdas can so little very similar to what we had over here.
Write create add as locals Lamda create add as locals Lamda.
The only difference is that first of all they are not closures.
If we do get closer we get nothing back.
And if we try and look for the free variables on 0
to see that we have no free variables.
That's because it's not a closure.
There is no free variable in this lambda.
So by the way now you have an example of a lambda not being a closing.
Right.
So lambdas and closures are not the same thing.
So we don't have it.
Why.
Well because creation time it evaluated n and put that into Y as the default for one.
So there's not even a mention of an in the body of the function.
There's no free variable there's no closure.
What this means however is that by the time we call this function the default value for Y is already
set it's 1.
And that's not going to change.
So please send in 10.
We did get 11 back.
Of course this is a land that I can take two values.
So if we really wanted to we could say you don't add
as sorry as 0 or 10 comma 5 and that's going to return 15 prime because we've now changed the value
of winds of letting it use its default.
But if you don't to default you don't have to specify it.
You get that if you get adder's 1 10 you get 12 and so on.
So that's how you can fix the problem if you really want to be able to do something like this.
Don't use a closer right to use a closure you're going to have a common end.
So if you don't want that don't use a closure.
A common trick is to use a default so that you get the assignment at creation time and not a closure
not a free variable that gets evaluated at runtime at cold time of the calls.
All right.
So thanks for watching and I'll see in the next video.